“Look, Dad!
            What's that dark cloud over there? It's not the storm, is it?” Looking over the backs of the
      four horses that pull your cart, your father squints, then says, “Riders. Lots of them and coming fast.”
      “Are they bandits, Paul?” asks your mother fearfully, clutching her shawl to her throat. “No, Martha.
      They can't be bandits. The Dwarven Guard cleaned up the last of them then years ago. I don't know
      who they are, but the way they're riding we'll soon find out. “Galen, grab that puppy of yours and get
      under cover in that pile of bedclothes.” “But I want to stay here. If there's trouble, I can help too.” “Do
      as your father says,” snaps your mother. “And don't come out till we say it's safe.” You know better
      than to argue with your mother, so you get off the narrow wooden seat and wriggle through the
      crowded cart. “Well, no one said I couldn't watch,” you whisper to Woofy, who licks your face in reply.
      Snuggling down into the pile of blankets, you quiet the puppy, who thinks you're trying to play. Then
      you arrange the blankets so that you can see. Soon, a faint rumble becomes the drumming thunder of
      horses' hoofs. “Hold your team!” demands a harsh voice. “Oh, Paul! It's the Guard!” cries your mother.
      “Thank heavens, we're safe.” Pulling the team to a complete stop, your father calls, “Ho! Guard! What
      is your business with us? We are anxious to camp before the storm breaks. Speak, and let us be on our
      way.” “Do you dare to speak so to the King's Guard?” snarls a menacing voice. “Teach the humans to
      be polite!” urges another of the uniformed dwarves. Your mother clings to your father's arm. Train
      begins to fall. All around you are the sounds of horses. Saddle leather creaks beneath the weight of the
      armored Dwarven Guard, and you feel the presence of unseen riders closing in. “Now, now, lads. Is this
      any way to speak to those we have vowed to protect?” asks a honeyed voice. “Come, let us not be
      hasty. Let's find out how the situation lies. After all, lads, we wouldn't want to make a mistake now,
      would we?” There is a long moment of silence. Then a few voices mutter, “Sneed's right.” “Well, then.
      There we all are. Nice and pleasant,” says Sneed. “Surely all a mistake. But these are lads with quick
      tempers, so please humor us by answering a few questions.” “I'm sure we've done no wrong,” says your
      mother. “What do you want to know?” “Just a few questions, “says Sneed. “Like where you've been
      and where you're going.” “Why, Captain, we're going to the prince's coronation, of course. And as to
      where we've been, we've been mapping. My husband is the royal mapmaker.” “Royal mapmaker, eh?
      Splendid occupation. So useful. And are you traveling alone?” Your father answers quickly, “Yes,
      Captain, quite alone. Just me and the missus.” “All by yourselves. Splendid, just splendid,” Sneed
      beams. “You see, lads, what comes of talking first? Now we know who these fine people are. Avoid
      mistakes, I always say. Now we know they are alone. Seize them!” Before your father can protest,
      heavy hands pull him and your mother from the cart. Your mother screams and your father curses, but
      rough laughter drowns out their cries. “You see, lads. It is as I told you. Who would suspect the king's
      own Dwarven Guard of treachery? No one, until it's far too late. Soon, all that is owed to us for long
      years of protecting humans will be ours. Now, tie these two up. We'll take them back to the caves. A
      mapmaker will be useful to our new kingdom. Soon we will launch our attack, With the price in our
      hands, the kingdom is ours! Drive the wagon int othe rocks and search it for gold and maps. Then burn
      it!”
